In this video, I'm going to go ahead and
configure a task executor for Spring. And,
what I'm gonna be doing is I'm gonna be sending out a message periodically.
And to do this, we are going to enable
scheduling so we can send that out at a
fixed rate. So, we need to do a little bit
of configuration with Spring to get this
set up. So, let me come in here to IntelliJ and
let me create a new package.
And I want to use a package called
config for configuration classes. And now,
I'm gonna create a new Java class and
I'll just call this TaskConfig
like so. So, that will be added to Github and I'll
be putting this in a check in branch for
you guys. And, this is gonna be a
configuration class. And, the two things I
wanna do here primarily is the @EnableScheduling.
This is gonna enable the task
scheduler. And then also, I wanna do
@EnableAsync. So, this combination of
annotations sets up Spring Boot to go
ahead and perform tasks out of a task
pool so which is exactly what we wanna
do. And now, what I wanna do is have a
TaskExecutor,
find this bean like so. And here, we can
just say new
SimpleAsyncTaskExecutor. So, this is a
really really simple thing to set up. Or
just go ahead and return that. And then,
we also want to do @Bean. So, we set this
up. And, what this configuration is doing,
it's gonna be setting up a bean
called Task Executor. We are using a
SimpleAsyncTaskExecutor. This is a
standard part of Spring Framework. Very
simple implementation. So, what this is
going to do is give us the ability to
run async task. And also then, the @EnableScheduling.
What is gonna enable to do is
is it's gonna tell Spring to go ahead
and expect classes for scheduled tasks.
And in upcoming video, what we'll do is
we'll go ahead and set up a schedule
task to send out a message at a periodic
basis. But this here, this is a very
important stuff here to enable this. This just
sets up everything to enable that
task scheduling. And then, the task
pull to actually go out and execute that
task of sending a message. So, just to
recap, what I did in this video is I
created a new class called TaskConfig
in the package called config. It's
important to use the @EnableScheduling
and @EnableAsync. And then, finally, the
configuration that is what is going to
tell Spring to pick this up as a
Configuration class and scan it for
methods that are annotated with the @Bean
annotation. So, we are gonna get a
TaskExecutor bean injected into the Spring
Context. And then, Spring is gonna use
this to go ahead and execute tasks for
us. So, in an upcoming video, I will go
ahead and setup a JMS bean to go out and
send messages. But this is what's going
to be executing those tasks for us.